the a380 is tilted a test flight
department leaving behind the factory
where it was assembled it's a journey of
only a couple of miles but it signifies
the beginning of its new life as a
flying testbed quieter crowd has turned
out and everyone wants to know how long
it will be until the plane flies
previous aircraft have taken about a
fortnight but Alonso won't be pinned
down to a specific date just yet I
really do not want to be under the
pressure of saying it's ten days or two
weeks I don't know when it'll be and
nobody's cleaner and more eager to fly
than we are
so I think I think you just have to rely
that as soon as we feel that in the
airplanes ready we will fly in that time
these guys have test flow on everything
from airliners to jet fighters but this
is their biggest challenge on previous
programs their perform takeoffs with
runways folded with tons of water
they deliberately scraped the fuselage
along the ground doing takeoffs and
they've flown aircraft to Siberia to
test them at 50 degrees below zero plus
they've thrown passenger planes around
the sky in the most extreme maneuvers
it's a challenging but satisfying job
it's something which is rather demanding
it asks you to be at your best level
permanently because you cannot you
cannot cheat you
you really
conditions and it's it's something which
is stimulating within the next 12 months
Jack and his team will be pulling
maneuvers like this in the a380 but all
that depends on getting the plane into
the air the first step is to get used to
the aircraft with all the systems
everything is working by April the 8th
the team are ready to test the engines
we start the engines there's there's one
ignition which is that one for the APU
then we start the engine number one
start the engine number two I will start
the engine number three I'm gonna start
into number four with emergency crews on
standby
the a380 can at last start to come to
life stop
the smoke is caused by a protective
layer of oil burning off as the engines
are run one by one
testing and monitoring the engines takes
two long days but now the aircraft can
move under its own power for the first
time
the next 10 days are spent on further
detailed checks on the ground and the a
create it becomes a familiar sight it
Toulouse International Airport taxi up
and down
gradually the speed is increased and
most importantly the brakes are tested
by the look of the tires after the tests
the brakes are well up to the job
confidence in the aircraft is growing
every day there's some little things
could be fixed but wheeling we're
getting closer every day we're closer
each of the flight testing has a very
specific job and flight test engineer
Jacques was role is to monitor the
engines on the way back from one of the
ground runs Jackie thinks he may have
spotted a serious problem
I saw it where we are texting back from
the inside yeah no no I you saw that
there was a white spot suspicious I
think he suspects that something has
gone into the engine and there's a fear
that whatever caused these white marks
has damaged the 6-ton nine million pound
powerplant
replacing the engine would almost
certainly delay the first flight jarred
Dubois arrives to give his expert
opinion
did you check out the wazoo
it is about dies off its blood
two days later comes a stark reminder of
the dangers facing the test team Jim
Force has to make sure they are familiar
with all the safety kit on board
including an emergency escapes you
should the unthinkable happen an
emergency evacuation system this is
fired by pyrotechnic handles in the
cockpit and in the flight engineers
station they drive a firing door which
is down the bottom of this tube here in
the main cargo door the crew can come
and jump safely out through the store
and with the aid of the parachute get
down safely to the ground after two
weeks of hard work there's one final
test
the engines are brought to full power
for the first time
blasting accelerating hard the plane
reaches a hundred and thirty knots
almost 150 miles an hour the other
growths are
and the brakes are applied I'll move it
it is pure so with that of the world's
biggest airliner is ready to go
Kailash departs first on these leave us
a doll well actually far we wanted to
may not work optimally but then our
mother had boom with